Here is a detailed breakdown of the RecoverFlow AI project. We will start with the high-level workflow, then explain how the pieces fit together, and finally do a deep dive into exactly what the Python backend code is doing function by function.

1. The Complete Workflow (The Big Picture)
Imagine a customer is trying to buy something from a merchant using Razorpay, but their payment fails because they don't have enough money in their account. Here is the exact journey of that failed transaction through your system:

Detection (The Webhook): The Razorpay gateway detects the failure and immediately sends a signal (a webhook) to your backend server saying: "Hey, Payment #123 just failed due to insufficient funds."
Diagnosis (Classification): Your system receives this signal and categorizes the failure. Instead of just seeing "error code 54," it understands this is a "Customer Action" problem (the customer needs to add money to their account).
AI Scoring (Recovery Potential): The system calculates a score (0 to 100) to decide how much effort it should spend trying to recover this money. It looks at the amount, how valuable the customer is (LTV), and their past behavior. Let's say this gets a high score of 85%.
Strategy Routing (The Plan): Based on the score of 85% and the bucket "Customer Action", the system decides the best strategy is: "Delayed retry + SMS Nudge".
Bounded Execution (The Action): The system executes the strategy but checks the merchant's rules first. Are we allowed to send an SMS at 11 PM? (No, DND is active). It waits for a valid time, sends the SMS, and attempts the retry.
Audit & Measurement: Every single step—from receiving the webhook to the final recovery—is logged in an audit trail. The dashboard updates to show the merchant exactly how much money was recovered.


2. How the Two Pieces Work Together
Your project consists of two main files that talk to each other (conceptually, even though the current HTML has its own mock data for the demo):

recoverglow_ai_backend.py (The Engine): This is the brain. It runs continuously, waiting to receive data. It holds all the rules, the scoring logic, and the execution loops.
recoverflow_ai_dashboard.html (The Face): This is what the merchant sees. It visualizes the data coming from the backend. It shows charts, the list of failed transactions, the AI's reasoning (the score breakdown), and the audit trail.
3. The Code in Detail (Python Backend Functions)
Let's break down recoverglow_ai_backend.py section by section to understand the logic.


A. Data Models (Lines 34 - 108)
This section defines the "shapes" of your data using Pydantic. It ensures that every transaction always has an amount, a status, a bucket, etc.

FailureBucket & RecoveryStatus: Define strict categories (e.g., a status can only be "pending", "retrying", "recovered", etc.).
Transaction: The blueprint for a failed payment, holding all its details and its audit trail.
MerchantConfig: Holds the rules set by the merchant (max retries, max cost, DND hours).


B. AI Scoring Engine (Lines 116 - 204)
This is where the "intelligence" lives.

classify_failure(error_code, description):
What it does: Takes raw error strings (like "bank_timeout") and maps them to a FailureBucket (like SOFT).
score_recovery_potential(txn):
What it does: The core rule-based AI. It starts with 50 points and adds/subtracts points based on rules.
Example: If the transaction is over ₹10,000, it adds 15 points. If it's a HARD failure (stolen card), it subtracts 30 points because it's nearly impossible to recover.
predict_optimal_retry_time(txn):
What it does: A helper function that tries to guess the best time to retry a payment so it doesn't happen in the middle of the night.


C. Strategy Router (Lines 206 - 266)
select_strategy(score, bucket, method, config):
What it does: It acts as a traffic controller. It takes the score and the failure bucket and decides what to do next.
Example: If the score is low (<20), it gives up and routes to "manual_review". If it's a SOFT failure with a high score (>70), it decides to do a "smart_retry" (retrying on a different payment gateway immediately).


D. Bounded Executor (Lines 268 - 361)
execute_recovery(txn, strategy, config):
What it does: This is the function that actually "does the work." It runs in a loop based on the max_attempts allowed.
The "Bounds": Before attempting a recovery, it checks the time against the merchant's Do-Not-Disturb (dnd_start_hour) setting. It also tracks the cost_accrued (e.g., an SMS costs ₹0.15) and stops if it exceeds the merchant's budget.
The Simulation: Because this is a demo, it uses random.random() > 0.35 to simulate whether the recovery attempt succeeded or failed.


E. API Endpoints (Lines 363 - 573)
These are the doors that allow the outside world (like Razorpay or your frontend dashboard) to talk to your backend.

@app.post("/webhooks/razorpay"):
What it does: This is the most important door. Razorpay sends the payment failure data here. The function creates a new Transaction, scores it, selects a strategy, saves it to the database (transactions_db), and then tells the BackgroundTasks to start executing the recovery without making Razorpay wait for an answer.
@app.post("/transactions/simulate"):
What it does: A testing door. It allows you to quickly generate a fake failed transaction to see how the system reacts.
@app.get("/metrics") & @app.get("/transactions"):
What it does: These doors are used by your HTML dashboard to fetch the data it needs to draw the charts and tables.


F. Seed Data (Lines 581 - 631)
seed_data():
What it does: When you start the server using uvicorn, this function automatically creates 8 fake transactions so that your database isn't empty when you first open the dashboard.
12:35 AM





important part = Right now, what we have built is a dynamic simulation engine, which sits somewhere in the middle.

It is not just a hardcoded webpage. You have a real, fully-functioning Python backend (recoverflow_ai_backend.py) that acts as a "brain." When a transaction fails, your backend dynamically calculates a score based on real parameters (LTV, amount, failure reason) and runs background workers to simulate the recovery process over time.

However, it is NOT a true Generative AI Agent yet. Currently, the "brain" is using rule-based logic (if/else statements based on the score) to mimic what an AI would do. It is algorithmically making decisions, but it isn't using a real Large Language Model (LLM) or Machine Learning model to think.

What this means for your Razorpay Buildathon:
Since you are building an AI agent for Razorpay, this current codebase is the perfect foundation and UI layer, but to complete the hackathon requirements, you likely need to replace the rule-based scoring with a real AI!

To make this a true AI Agent, our next step should be: Instead of calculating the score using our basic math formula (score = base + ltvBonus + ...), we should connect your Python backend to an API like OpenAI (GPT-4) or Anthropic (Claude).

When a webhook comes in, your backend would send the transaction details (Amount, Gateway, Error Code, Customer History) to the LLM, and the LLM would act as the "Agent" to reply with the exact score and strategy to use!

Would you like me to help you integrate a real LLM (like OpenAI) into your Python backend so it becomes a true AI Agent?

1:22 AM
tell me are we using the rezorpa api key for transaction fetch or the task we can do using that api tell me what will be the task of that api key in our project
1:26 AM
Currently, in our codebase, we are not using a real Razorpay API key yet. Everything you see on the dashboard right now is running on simulated mock data to demonstrate how the engine works.

However, for your Buildathon, integrating the actual Razorpay API is the next massive step! Here is exactly what the Razorpay API Key and Secret will be used for in your project:

1. Verifying Webhooks (The Trigger)
Instead of clicking a "+ Simulate failure" button, your backend will receive Razorpay Webhooks automatically whenever a real transaction fails (e.g., the payment.failed event). Your API secret is required to mathematically verify the webhook signature to ensure the failure alert actually came securely from Razorpay.

2. Fetching Rich Context (The AI's Eyes)
When a payment fails, the webhook only gives you basic information. Your backend will use the API key to call Razorpay (e.g., GET /payments/{id} or GET /customers/{id}) to fetch deep context for your AI Agent. It will fetch:

Exact error codes and gateway responses (e.g., was it an HDFC downtime or a wrong CVV?)
The customer's historical payment success rate.
Associated order or subscription details. This real data is what your AI Agent will use to calculate the "Recovery Score".
3. Executing the Recovery Strategy (The Action)
Once your AI decides on a strategy, it uses the Razorpay API key to actually execute it in the real world! For example:

Payment Links: If the AI decides on "Delayed retry + Nudge", it will use the API (POST /payment_links) to automatically generate a fresh Razorpay Payment Link and text it to the customer.
Subscriptions/Mandates: If an eNACH or UPI mandate failed due to a soft bank issue, your agent will use the API to automatically queue a retry attempt for the subscription.
In summary: The Razorpay API key bridges your AI brain to the real world. It lets your agent listen to real failures, investigate why they happened, and act to recover the money automatically!

1:26 AM


after api integrating = How it will work AFTER Integration (Live Mode):
The Real Trigger: A real customer tries to buy something on your website/app, but their payment fails (maybe their UPI failed or their card timed out).

The Webhook: Razorpay instantly and automatically sends a secure message (called a Webhook) directly to your Python backend saying: "Hey, payment pay_ABC123 just failed!"

Fetching the Real Data: Your backend will use the Razorpay API Key you just generated to securely ask Razorpay: "Give me the full details for pay_ABC123."

The Real AI Decision: Razorpay replies with the actual amount, the actual error code, the gateway used, and the customer's phone number. Your AI Agent evaluates this real data, scores it, and decides what to do.

The Real Recovery: If the AI decides to use a Payment Link, it uses your API Key again to tell Razorpay: "Create a new payment link for ₹500 and text it to this customer's phone number."